Jeff Rosenstock Tribute

- Sections
    - Album Context
    - Notable Songs
    - Possibly Favorite Quotes Sections

- Album Minus Band
    - Album Context 
        Written after the breakup of Jeff's original Ska-Punk band The Arrogant Sons of Bastards. Album Minus Band is an album that just kind of happened.
        After the breakup, Jeff started experimenting with some samples from other bands and randomly started recording stuff. 
        Not wanting to forget a song lyric, he quickly recorded the song "Sweet Home Cananada" on his mac. This was the start of the band Bomb the Music Industry! 
        This continued with Jeff suddenly having an idea, then recording it with his mac and a $100 microphone. Eventually these tidbits came together to form "Album Minus Band". 
        Jeff was already known for having firm beliefs in the DIY mythos. This ideology would take full form in his new band.
        Bomb the Music Industry! would later become "famous" for being one of the true DIY experiment bands. Only playing <$10 all ages shows, burning their cd's for fans at no cost, 
        spray painting t-shirts, allowing fans who knew the songs to play onstage, and releasing all their music for free long before it became a trend. 
        This album was the start of all that. The album doesn't seem to have any connective themes, but is rather just a messy, weird, spastic, awesome journey, filled with great unlicensed quotes from tv and movies.

    - Notable Songs
        - "Does Your Face Hurt? No? 'cause It's Killing Me!!!" -  This song could arguably be called the mission statement of Bomb The Music Industry! The song talks about the fans
        and corporations that put the scene of the music over the music itself. "Someone the other day was telling me about marketing; And how it's so important for a band to sell a t-shirt;
        I told him that the money goes right back into the same thing; And now we're just a breeding ground for more and more consumers" Jeff also brings up something in this song that he will
        have to confront over and over again. The idea of becoming a sellout. "Sellout, shmellout, it's not about that; But all my problems seem to stem from cash; I got my beliefs and I don't care if they're right"
        This song takes aim at the people who make music for reasons other than making fun music.

        - "Sweet Home Cananada" - Like I mentioned above, this was the song that started the whole band. Jeff didn't want to forget a lyric for this song, so he went home, recorded it and ended 
        up making a whole album after this song.

        - "FRRRREEEEEE BIIIIIIRRRRRD! FRRRREEEEEE BIIIIIIRD!!!!" Actually written by Laura Stevenson, who would be a main member of Bomb The Music Industry for quite a bit, but then would later go on 
        to make her own solo stuff. This song talks about the feeling of singing music for jerks in bars, biting your tongue, then taking the money and leaving.

        - "Future 86" - The vocals for this song were recorded after an ASOB show. They handed out a bunch of lyric sheets and had about 80 or 90 kids screaming and clapping the lyrics.
        It really gives this song that loose, group of rowdy friends singing together feel.


- To Leave Or Die In Long Island
    - Album Context
        Written almost immediately after Jeff finished Album Minus Band, To Leave or Die In Long Island is a product of being stuck with your parents in your
        twenties, working for minimum wage, and feeling like you don't really relate to what is happening around you. This didn't start as an album, but rather
        an EP. It ended up somewhere inbetween, so it's on the shorter side with only 8 tracks. Most of the songs
        are about Jeff's frustration with the daily grind and the idea of what growing up and success really mean. In general just working a crap job
        in a crap town and feeling like there is no point to it all. This is all summed up perfectly by the last song on the album
        "SYKE! LIFE IS AWESOME!" in which Jeff admits that even though he feels he's mostly wasting his time, every once in a while life gives
        you something truly nice, which sort of makes it all worth it. The last song brings the themes of sadness and existential depression together and
        leave the album on a bittersweet note. The feel of the album is similar to Album Minus Band, but a little bit more polished, and a little less 
        spastic, with each song feeling like a complete song, rather that short spurts that make a whole. The album keeps the same sound with synthesizers, saxophones,
        and drum machines assaulted at the speed of a liberated metronome.

    - Notable Songs
        - "Syke! Life Is Awesome!" - As I mentioned above, I love this song, and think it is possible Jeff's best song. The song could be used to sum up Jeff's whole life philosophy which is that
        Life is mostly frustration and disappointment but every once in a while a moment comes along and you recognize that life isn't all bad. That there are quite a few things in your life that you 
        wouldn't trade for anything. That a lot of the bad things in your life, led to the good things. The song incorporates multiple different genres and just rushes from one to the next feeling like
        a mad house theme song. The crazy frenetic music, combined with the lyrics, make this a perfect ending song for the album. If anyone asked me why I love Jeff's music, I'd point to this song. 

- Goodbye Cool World
    - Album Context
        Written after Jeff moved out of his parents and into a nice apartment in an upper middle-class neighborhood in Queens, NY. With Jeff once again feeling 
        isolated, though for a different reason. Caused by living in an area of a demographic not your own, a lack of nearby friends, and no money to visit those friends. 
        The Album was almost completely recorded in Jeff's Apartment which, due to the area, meant he could only record between 5:30 and 6:30 PM. Just like AMB and TLODILI
        this album was also solely recorded on Jeff's Laptop with a cheap microphone. This album uses the same style of instruments as the first two,
        with the frenetic fake drums, synthesizers, piano, and guitars. On this album though, you can hear Jeff really start to experiment with the genres,
        not just making messy punk rock, but really injecting some pop and melody into his songs (Side Projects are Never Successful, Sorry Brooklyn Dancing Won't Solve Anything, 
        Anywhere I Lay My Head). The resulting sound is probably his weirdest album of all, with his trademark chaotic sound mixed with more traditional pop piano, horns, and synthesizers,
        creating a sort of mad-scientist, twisted fun-house album. The lyrical content is similar to the last album, with most of the songs being about isolation, depression,
        disappointment with the human race, and frustration with the music business. This is also the first album that was released for free on QuoteUnquoteRecords.com. 
        The (possibly first?) donation based record label founded by Jeff. I consider this to be the most eccentric, bizarre album Jeff has produced, so if that 
        is your thing, I'd give this one a listen.

    - Notable Songs
        - "Side Projects Are Never Successful" - One of Jeff's most cynical songs about corporations, all camoflauged with a poppy, cheesy, piano rhythym. Jeff sings about the clausterphobia 
        he feels in the modern world where the only shade in cities are billboards, how the roads are covered with fast-food litter, how even revolutionary bands like fugazi sold their albums.
        Jeff attacks all these different entities, but then admits that as much as he rants, he is no different from them. "And when I finally got to work today, I ate my Subway sandwich, 
        and I drank my Coca-Cola Classic, and then I ate my Sunchips and I thought about the weekend when I'd fill up my Ford van with Mobil brand gas and drive to the Clear Channel venue 
        and I'd drink myself a Budweiser and play my Fender guitar through my Fender amplifier and tell the kids with a straight face through a Shure microphone and JBL speakers that 
        corporate rock is for suckers. uhhh yeah"

        - "5 Funerals" - One of Jeff's most depressing songs. A song that was created because 5 of Jeff's friends + family died around the same period. Jeff felt terrible not only about their deaths
        but about the way he views death. So Jeff wrote this song apologizing for his selfishness. This is possibly one of his most nihlistic songs. The music contrasts the depressing lyrics by being 
        largely upbeat and fast-paced.

        - "Anywhere I Lay My Head" - Actually a cover of Tom Waits song of the same name. I just feel this song needs noted for it's bizarre almost baseball park like theme music at the end. The
        original song already had a weird trumpet part at the end that worked to contrast the depressing lyrics, but Jeff's version makes it even stranger by adding a cheering crowd and upbeat synth.
        This works as a great weird end to this weird album.

- Get Warmer
    - Album Context
        Written during a 6 month period in Athens, Georgia. Get Warmer is the first BTMI! album that marks a transition into a more professional recording 
        process. Recorded with real people, using real instruments, in a real recording studio. Almost all the instruments were recorded live by a large group of different
        people. The band was still considered a "collective" at this point and had not boiled down to the five band members it would later become.
        The album still has the traditional BTMI! sound that the previous 3 albums had, but the real instruments give it a fuller, less 
        synthetic feel. The new production also makes the songs a bit cleaner, well formed, and more deliberate in their sound.
        It's also the first BTMI! album that has a specific theme behind it. The songs all take place in a single story arc in one location. Jeff says he tried to keep the songs about 
        specific experiences (riding bikes, washing dishes, moving somewhere new), and use those specific experiences to elaborate on larger emotional issues and feelings.
        Some songs in particular really nail this idea (Bike Test 1 2 3, Unlimited Breadsticks, Soup and Salad Days, Get Warmer). While this album is a great Rosenstock/BTMI! album
        I still would put it near the bottom as in my opinion, none of the songs really stand out for me when compared to the rest of their discography.
        Though this album does have their most popular and most radio-friendly song "I Don't Love You Anymore". This album is important though as it starts the
        transition of BTMI! from a scrappy, one-man-with-a-laptop band, to a more traditionally produced band with consistent members.

    - Notable Songs
        - "Bike Test 1 2 3" - In this song Jeff uses the theme of riding a bike to convey the struggles and joys of life. The struggles uphill and joy of speeding downhill.
        "And it gets easier as I ascend my bike uphill on foot 'cause last time I kicked it into first I broke a gear by going too hard." "And it gets easier, as time goes 
        things can only get better R-I-D-E. I wanna ride."

        - "Depression is NO FUN." - Quite a few of the songs on this album are about moving and the idea that everywhere you move to is essentialy the same. If you are expecting a move
        to fix the personal problems in your life, it most likely won't work out. The problems are going to be there no matter where you go, until you face them. I think this song
        expresses this feeling best, and I think one of the best lyrics about this idea is: "Even when locations change, the imbalance stays the same And you just run out of cities, 
        states and countries you can blame. So you just keep running away."

- Scrambles
    - Album Context
        Written because Jeff wanted to record a record that cost $50, Which actually meant that he wanted to make a big record with a big sound.
        They had never spent that much on a record before. Luckily when you have a lot cool friends, you can do this. The record
        was created bit by bit, by different people in many different states, reworked and reworked until the album had the big sound that Jeff was looking
        for. They manage to hit their $50 mark. The album has a grand feel to it and while there is no major theme to it (besides the usual depression and existential dread)
        it really feels like a complete album that flows well with a slow-burning opening song, and a climactic ending song. The album uses similar instrumentation to the last album
        with live drums, guitars, horns, and pianos. In this album though every instrument has it's role in the melody as they move away from the grand messy chaotic sound
        that made up most of their previous albums. The lyrics are the best they've been yet with Jeff practically writing essays on certain subjects,
        experiences, and opinions. This has got to be one of his best albums. Not necessarily because it has any unique gimmick or idea driving it, every song is just really really good.

    - Notable Songs
        - "Stuff That I Like" - Jeff claims he wrote this song because He wanted it to be in Guitar Hero or Rock Band. All of the swearing probably prevented that though. This is just a really
        fun song that has a great fun feel to it. The Lyrics are about ignoring what everyone else says is fun, and just doing what you enjoy doing. Sailing your own boat. This is a great intro 
        song to anyone new to the band or Jeff.

        - "(Shut) Up the Punx!!!" - Lyrically this is one of my favorite songs. The song is about how the punk movement was originally about liking what you liked, allowing others to like what they
        like, and not letting anyone else define who you are. But the Punk movement has become fashionable and cliquish. "I know it’s hypocritical to point fingers at the people who point fingers; But when we 
        all march to the beat of the same different drummer; Yeah, the steps start to come off like clockwork; I guess I’m saying we could stand to be nicer" Jeff is saying that punk has just become
        another brand, and is not about the music or the ideology anymore. If you're not this or that you are not a true "punk". "I think it’s dumb when you take the inherently fun like riding bikes 
        and singing songs and say they’re not for everyone As if for your whole life you were cool as shit" I don't want to just post all the lyrics to this song, but I think this song is not only
        relevant in punk culture, but really any subculture that is exclusive. Too many subcultures are founded as a haven for people with weird interests and they end up becoming exclusionary and saying
        if you don't x you're not y. This could all be summed up in the lyric "This non-conformity looks like conformity; Like boring, nice people pose threats to your authority; This positivity is negativity"
        This is a great song. Give it a listen and read the lyrics!


- Adults!!!: Smart!!! Shithammered!!! And Excited By Nothing!!!!!!!
    - Album Context
        Written originally as an EP, I would argue this is more of a mini-album similar to To Leave Or Die In Long Island. Adults was recorded, mixed, and released in 
        5 days with no notice or announcement. There is not much to say about this album. They just kind of threw it out there and moved on. The album is arguably the most
        'fun' BTMI! album, with a ton of horns, claps and rowdy vocal harmonies. If I were going to label any BTMI! album as a party album, it would be this one. The music is catchy
        and upbeat, plus the lyrics aren't too challenging or weird. Quite a few of the songs from this album are on Spotify's top 10 if you look up BTMI!. I don't 
        mean to take away from the songs though. Often the upbeat music distorts the darker lyrics giving them some real depth. Plus All-Ages Show is one of my favorite Jeff Rosenstock
        songs, with one of the best female/male harmonies. But at the end of the day. This feels like a collection of random songs. Which is not a bad thing and shouldn't be discouraged, 
        but it also isn't why I fell in love with BTMI!/Rosenstock.

    - Notable Songs
        - "All Ages Show" - 1 of 2 duet songs Jeff has done. I don't have much to say about this song other than it's great. The female singer (Laura Stevenson) doesn't come in until
        halfway through the song. The song builds and builds until it both the female and male voice are singing and alternating the same chorus "Let's start a conversation about anything
        I'm tired of arguing It isn't fun for me Reverse psychology instead of just listening up - that always seemed stupid to me" This is a very powerful and emotionally moving song.
        It also has one of my favorite verses about relationships "Can you stay here? Can we blast the Descendents? Can we turn our phones off and get lost in The Simpsons? I feel inches 
        away from getting swallowed by darkness; And I know that you're tired, but can you draw back the curtains for me?" Check this song out!

- Vacation
    - Album Context
        If Get Warmer was the match, Scrambles was the flame, then Vacation is the explosion. This is their magnum opus. Everything they have been building towards culminates perfectly
        in this album. The themes, the lyrics, the songs, all come together to form an album that flows tonally perfect from start to finish. With each song contributing so that you must listen to
        the album from start to end to appreciate it's grandeur. The Album was mostly written when Jeff was on a free trip to belize, and it has the sound and feel of a summer-soaked surfer punk album. 
        Where most of BTMI's past work is upbeat with negative lyrics, Vacation is sort of the opposite. The music is still fun, but there is a thread of melancholy through it all. 
        This matches up with the lyrics, which see Jeff trying to be positive and happy, but still experiencing the typical fears and worrys even while he is on vacation. The album really rides this 
        balance of hopeful sadness. This gives the album a very unique sound, like if Weezer and the Beach Boys got together and just got really sad/emotional and made a record. This album sounds big though,
        and it truly feels like you're experiencing the story of relatable emotions that Jeff was on when he wrote this album. With the slow burn opening, expressing a desire to get away, the fun and excitement
        experienced upon first arrival, the crash and resumation of old feelings and fears, the acceptance and appreciation of what you have, and the climactic ending. I could just be making all that up, but the 
        point is that this album has a FEEL to it. You can feel the plot of the album with it's highs and lows. Once again, this is an album you must listen to from beginning to end to truly appreciate it.
        This album completes the sort of metamorphosis the band has been on from the messy, spastic, all over the place sound, to a carefully-crafted sound with anthemic vocals and grand themes. Many people 
        think this album was too indie and thought it lacked the chaotic sound of past BTMI! records, but I disagree. It still retains the rough, on the verge of a breakdown sound, but it only comes out when
        the song's theme dictates. This album will end up being the swan song for Bomb the Music Industry. Having accomplished what they set out to accomplish. At this point in the bands mythos, the Band
        had become a consistent group of 5-ish members, touring the country in their spare time, making some pocket money, and releasing the music they made for free. Jeff created the band
        as an attempt to 100% pursue the idea of a DIY band that never compromised their values, and they succeeded at that. The band members were going through some different personal stuff at the time, and 
        so instead of going on hiatus, they decided to finalize it and call it quits. Thus Vacation becomes the perfect finale to the band's musical trajectory and evolution . 
        BTMI would play their last show at the Warsaw in NYC to an uproarious and loving crowd. A fan-made documentary would be made about BTMI call Never Get Tired. You should give it a watch.
        
    - Notable Songs
        - "The Shit That You Hate" - A 6-minute song about how the world doesn't care about your problems. Jeff starts the song singing of some mistake he made, and how it didn't seem like a big deal at the 
        time. After all there are much bigger issues in the world. Why is he being hounded for such a small issue. He goes on to sing about how you can't run away from your problems or expect pity. "And nobody cares. 
        We all got sorrows So hold onto your home and onto your hope Sorrow don't answer problems" The song just builds and builds repeating the same lyric over and over again "The shit that you hate don't make you special"
        The lyrical content is pretty minimal for a 6-minute song, but the way the song builds and amplifies is pretty awesome. It's hard not to scream the lyrics at the end along with Jeff

        - "Hurricane Waves" - This song manages to perfect that summer-punk sound. Yet the lyrics are, as usual, about something darker. The result of constant procrastination. Putting off the boring
        things to do the fun things, again and again, until even the fun things have lost their luster. You are left wondering why you don't do anything anymore. There's not much more to the song than this, 
        but I think if I was to pick one song that represents this album, it would be this one.

        - "Campaign for a Better Next Weekend" - This is a great opening song, but I put it here because the video of BTMI playing this song at Warsaw in Never Get Tired demands a watch. It will show you just
        how much love there is for this band out there. How many people this band affected and how emotional their finale was, not only to the fans, but especially to the band members. 

- I Look Like Shit
    - Album Context
        Written after BTMI! was disbanded, I Look Like Shit unceremoniously became Jeff's solo debut. Jeff describes the reasoning for this album best: "A handful of them were demos for a 
        Bomb the Music Industry! EP called I Always Dread The End Of Summer, but shit got busy and that didn't end up happening. And then a bunch of them was for a slower record I was 
        working on called I'm Serious, I'm Sorry, but it wasn't really coming together terribly fast and who the hell knows if that'll ever happen. However, I do know that if leave a bunch of 
        food on your kitchen counter for too long, that shit is gonna get moldy, start attracting flies and smell like shit. So instead of having these jams just sit around doing nothing, 
        here they all are along with some more new songs and some covers in full noisy drum machine shitty vocals glory." I Look Like Shit helped set Jeff's solo stuff apart from his former 
        ASOB and BTMI! work as most of the songs don't really sound like either of those. It's a very personal album, with less punk, more piano, and lyrics that sound like they were ripped straight from a diary.
        These songs are depressing, like nihlistic, there is no point to anything why bother, depressing. Jeff considered not even releasing them because he thought they might be too much.
        He eventually released them because his friends reminded him that: "it's okay to release songs with lyrics that I may think are too dark and reminding me that those are actually the only lyrics I ever want to listen to"
        The album serves as a great start to Jeff's solo career, distinguishing his newer style from his older style, allowing him to make whatever music he wants without being beholden to a genre.
    
    - Notable Songs
        - "Twinkle" - 
        - "Bonus Oceans" -
        - "Amen" - 
        - "I Don't Wanna Die" -


- We Cool?
    - Album Context
        Written 2-ish years after I Look Like Shit was released, We Cool? is Jeff's official intended debut solo album. It is also Jeff's first record with the record company SideOneDummy. SideOneDummy acts
        more like a traditional record company, compared to the DIY/donation based labels his music had been released on in the past. SideOneDummy was cool enough to allow this album to continue being released
        for free on QuoteUnquoteRecords while SideOneDummy was selling it on their website. So anyone could still download the album for free, but they could also now purchase a physical copy or buy a tshirt. When 
        Jeff was running BTMI! many fans complained about the lack of merchandise as they wanted to support the band, but felt they had no way to do so. Jeff has since moved on from the extreme DIY views and now 
        allows himself to make some steady money from his music and merchandise. Something he had not been able to do for quite a while. Some may view this as selling out, but I think that's absurd. Jeff has spent
        most of his life making music, pleasing fans, and rejecting money. He deserves to live a comfortable life at some point. Anyway, We Cool? if a phenominal album. The goal as described by Jeff was to make: 
        "pop songs that got real weird and gross". I think this is the perfect way to describe this album. This album picks up and improves where I Look Like Shit left off. The songs on this album are messy, melancholic,
        self-reflective pieces of pop punk. The Lyrics are the best he's written yet with songs like Nausea, I'm Serious I'm Sorry, Polar Bear or Africa, and Get Old Forever, all about Jeff confronting who he is,
        what he wants, and how he treats others. These are the most relatable songs he's written yet. Not even considering that these songs fun as hell, with catchy melodies, anthemic choruses, and solo's that will make
        your adrenaline rush. The album was also the first of Jeff's to get any recognition by charting on a couple different billboards. An experience that was new to Jeff. Despite being a prominent figure in the DIY/Underground
        scene, Jeff hadn't (and arguably still hasn't) reached much fame in the mainstream crowd. So charting was a unique experience. This is one of his most fun records, and with the more straightforward punk sound, 
        I'd say this is probably the best starting point if you're new to his music.

    - Notable Songs
        - "You, in Weird Cities" -
        - "Nausea" -
        - "I'm Serious, I'm Sorry" -
        - "Polar Bear or Africa" -

- Worry. 
    - Album Context
        Written right around the time Jeff married his long time girlfriend, WORRY was originally supposed to be an album about love. It turned into something much bigger. Interspersed between the songs of love
        and growing old together, Jeff tackles a grand scope of issues that have been escalating in modern times. Corporate impersonations in the music industry, police brutality, the numbing effects of technology,
        and the selfishness of those in power. The combination of these themes somehow perfectly create an album about the absurdity of modern life, and the feeling of growing together with someone in these modern times. The 
        feeling of walking down a crowded street with clausterphobic thoughts about how everything is beyond hope, but then meeting someone and experiencing that flutter, that rush of excitement, but also the fear that this
        too will soon be beyond repair. Those hopes and fears are what this album is about. The album begins slowly with each song being seperate and isolated. But as the album goes on, the songs grow and grow and eventually
        the second half of the album explodes and each song flows breathlessly into the next, the pace never letting up until Jeff is screaming at the end of the album repeating the same line over and over while the band's instruments wail.
        You can't help but feel exhausted after the album. WORRY has been on numerous top x lists for Album of the Year, and was even ranked #1 on USA Today. A pretty huge feat for an artist that charted for the first time the previous
        year. It seems the world is finally taking stock of Rosenstock. The album is considered by many to be the best he's ever made. The term "magnum opus" comes up a lot if you look at the reviews for this album. But it absolutely
        deserves this title. This album is incredible. How he manages to combine so many different musical styles and yet have them all fit tonally is beyond me. As per typical Rosenstock fasion, Jeff humbly accepted the praise, and moved
        on towards his next project. Still playing free shows, still giving all his music away for free, still making the music he wants to make the way he wants to make it. Jeff has never listened to anyone who told him it shouldn't be
        done this way, and with the success of WORRY, I don't think he's going to start anytime soon.

    - Notable Songs
        - "Wave Goodnight to Me" -
        - "I Did Something Weird Last Night" -
        - "Blast Damage Days" -
        - "...While You're Alive" -